that Antonio hath a shipof rich lading
wrecked in the narrowseas,
the Goodwins I think theycall the place,
a very dangerous flat, andfatal,
where the carcasses ofmany a tall ship
lie buried as they say
if my gossip report be anhonest woman of her word.
I would she were as lyinga gossip in that
as ever knapped ginger ormade her neighbors believe
she wept for the death ofa third husband.
But it is true, withoutany slips of prolixity
or crossing the plainhighway of talk,
that the good Antonio, thehonest Antonio--
oh, that I had a title
good enough to keep hisname company.
Come, the full stop.
Hey, what sayest thou?
Why the end is, he hathlost a ship.
I would it might prove anend to his losses.
Let me say amen betimes,
lest the devil cross myprayer,
for here he comes in thelikeness of a Jew.
How now, Shylock?
What news among themerchants?
You knew.
None so well, none so wellas you
of my daughter's flight.
That's certain.
I, for my part, knew thetailor made the wings sheflew withal.
And Shylock, for his own part,knew the bird was fledged
and that it is thecomplexion of them all
to leave the dam.
She is damned for it.
That's certain, if thedevil may be a judge.
My own flesh and blood torebel!
Out upon it, old carrion.
Rebels it at these years?
I say my daughter is myflesh and my blood.
There is more differencebetween thy flesh and hers
than between jet andivory,
more between your bloods
than there is between redwine and Rhenish.
But tell us, do you hearwhether Antonio
have any loss at sea orno?
There I have another badmatch.
A bankrupt, a prodigal
who dare scarce show hishead on the Rialto.
A beggar that was used tocome so smug upon the mart.
Let him look to his bond.
He was wont to call meusurer.
He was wont to lend outmoney for a Christiancourtesy.
Let him look to his bond.
Why, I am sure if heforfeit thou wilt not takehis flesh.
What's that good for?
To bait fish withal.
If it will feed nothingelse, it will feed myrevenge.
He hath disgraced me andhindered me half amillion,
laughed at my losses,mocked at my gains,
scorned my nation,thwarted my bargains,
cooled my friends, heatedmine enemies,
and what's his reason?
I am a Jew.
Ah!
Hath not a Jew eyes?
Hath not a Jew hands,organs, dimensions,
senses, affections,passions,
fed with the same food,hurt with the same weapons,
subject to the samediseases, healed by thesame means,
warmed and cooled by thesame winter and summer
as a Christian is?
If you prick us, do we notbleed?
If you tickle us, do wenot laugh?
If you poison us, do wenot die?
And if you wrong us, shallwe not revenge?
If we are like you in therest, we will resemble youin that.
If a Jew wrong a Christian,what is his humility?
Revenge.
If a Christian wrong aJew,
what should his sufferancebe by Christian example?
Why, revenge.
The villainy you teach meI will execute,
and it shall go hard,
but I will better theinstruction.
Gentlemen.
My master Antonio is athis house
and has asked to speakwith you both.
We have been up and downto seek him.
Here comes another of thetribe.
A third cannot be matchedunless the devil himselfturn Jew.
How now, Tubal, what newsfrom Genoa?
Hast thou found mydaughter?
I often came where I didhear of her, but cannotfind her.
Why there, there, there,there!
A diamond gone cost me2,000 ducats in Frankfurt.
The curse never fell uponour nation till now.
I never felt it till now!
2,000 ducats in that
and other precious,precious jewels.
I would my daughter weredead at my foot,
and the jewels in her ear.
Would she were hearsed atmy foot and the ducats inher coffin.
No news of them, huh?
Why so?
And I know not what'sspent on the search.
Why thou--
Shh!
Loss upon loss!
The thief gone with somuch, and so much to findthe thief.
And no satisfaction, norevenge,
nor no ill luck stirring
but what lights o'er myshoulders,
no sighs but o'er mybreathing,
no tears but o'er myshedding.
Yes, other men have illluck too.
Antonio, as I heard inGenoa--
What, what? what?
Ill luck, ill luck?
Hath an Argosy cast awaycoming from Tripolis.
I thank God! I thank God!
Is it true? Is it true?
I spoke with some of thesailors that escaped the wreck.
I thank thee, good Tubal.
Good news, good news.
Ha!
Heard in Genoa?
your daughter spent inGenoa, as I heard,
one night, fourscoreducats.
Thou stick'st a dagger inme.
I shall never see my goldagain.
Fourscore ducats at asitting?
Fourscore ducats!
There came divers ofAntonio's creditors
in my company to Venice
that swear he cannotchoose but break.
I am very glad of it.
I'll plague him.
I'll torture him.
I am glad of it.
One of them showed me aring
he had of your daughterfor a monkey.
Out upon her.
Thou torturest me, Tubal.
It was my turquoise.
I had it of Leah when Iwas a bachelor.
I would not have given itfor a wilderness of monkeys.
But Antonio is certainlyundone.
Nay, that's true.
That's very true.
Go, Tubal, fee me anofficer.
Bespeak him a fortnightbefore.
I will have the heart ofhim if he forfeit,
for were he out of Venice,
I can make whatmerchandise I will.
Go, Tubal, and meet me atour synagogue.
Go, good Tubal.
At our synagogue, Tubal.
I pray you, tarry,
pause a day or two beforeyou hazard,
for in choosing wrong, Ilose your company.
Therefore, forbear awhile.
There's something tellsme-- but it is not love--
I would not lose you.
And you know yourself hatecounsels not in such a quality.
But lest you should notunderstand me well--
and yet a maiden hath notongue but thought--
I would detain you heresome month or two
before you venture for me.
I could teach you how tochoose right,
but then I am forsworn.
So will I never be.
So may you miss me.
but if you do, you'll makeme wish a sin
that I had been forsworn.
Beshrew your eyes.
They have o'erlooked meand divided me.
One half of me is yours,the other half, yours.
Mine own, I would say, butif mine, then yours,
and so all yours.
Oh, these naughty timesput bars
between the owners andtheir rights.
And so, though yours,
not yours.
Prove it so,
let fortune go to hell forit, not I.
I speak too long, but 'tisto piece the time,
to eke it and to draw itout in length
to stay you from election.
Let me choose, for as Iam, I live upon the rack.
Upon the rack, Bassanio?
Then confess.
What treason is theremingled with your love?
None but that ugly treasonof mistrust
which makes me fear theenjoying of my love.
There may as well be amityin life
'tween snow and fire astreason and my love.
Ay, but I fear you speakupon the rack
where men enforced dospeak anything.
Promise me life, and I'llconfess the truth.
Well, then, confess andlive.
Confess and love had beenthe very sum of myconfession.
Oh, happy torment
when my torturer dothteach me answers fordeliverance.
But let me to my fortuneand the caskets.
Away then.
I am locked in one ofthem.
If you do love me, youwill find me out.
Nerissa and the rest,stand all aloof.
Let music sound while hedoth make his choice,
then if he lose,
he makes a swan-like endfading in music.
That the comparison maystand more proper,
my eye shall be the streamand watery deathbed forhim.
He may win, and what ismusic then?
Why then music is even asthe flourish
when new subjects bow to anew-crowned monarch.
Such it is as are thosedulcet sounds at break ofday
that creep into thedreaming bridegroom's ear
and summon him tomarriage.
Now he goes, with no lesspresence,
but with much more lovethan young Alcaides
when he did redeem thevirgin tribute
paid by howling Troy tothe sea monster.
I stand for sacrifice.
The rest aloof are theDardanian wives
with bleared visages
come forth to view theissue of the exploit.
Go, Hercules.
Live thou; I live.
With much, much moredismay, I view the fight
than thou that makes thefray.
Tell me where is fancybred?
Or in the heart or in thehead?
How begot, how nourished?
Reply, reply.
It is engendered in theeyes
with gazing fed,
and fancy dies
in the cradle where itlies.
Let us all ring fancy'sknell.
I'll begin it.
Ding, dong, bell.
So may the outward showsbe least themselves.
The world is stilldeceived with ornament.
In law, what plea sotainted and corrupt
but being seasoned with agracious voice
obscures the show of evil?
In religion, what damnederror
but some sober brow willbless it,
and approve it with atext,
hiding the grossness withfair ornament?
There is no vice so simple
but assumes some mark ofvirtue
on his outward parts.
How many cowards,
whose hearts are all asfalse as stairs of sand,
wear yet upon their chins
the beards of Hercules andfrowning Mars,
who inward searched, havelivers white as milk.
And these assume butvalor's excrement
to render them redoubted.
Look on beauty, and youshall see 'tis purchasedby the weight
which therein works amiracle in nature,
making them lightest thatwear most of it.
So are those crisped snakygolden locks
which make such wantongambols with the wind
upon supposed fairness,
often known to be thedowry of a second head,
the skull that bred themin the sepulchre.
Thus ornament is but aguiled shore
to a most dangerous sea,
the beauteous scarfveiling an Indian beauty.
In a word, the seeming truthwhich cunning times put on
to entrap the wisest.
Therefore then, thou gaudygold, hard food for Midas,
I will none of thee.
Nor none of thee, thoupale and common drudge
'tween man and man.
But thou, thou meagrelead,
which rather threaten'stthan dost promise aught.
Thy plainness moves memore than eloquence,
and here choose I.
Joy be the consequence.
How all other passionsfleet to air
as doubtful thoughts, andrash-embraced despair
and shudd'ring fear, andgreen-eyed jealousy.
Oh, love, be moderate.
Allay thy ecstasy.
In measure rain thy joy.
Scant this excess.
I feel too much thyblessing.
Make it less for fear Isurfeit.
What find I here?
Fair Portia's counterfeit!
What demigod hath come sonear creation?
Move these eyes, orwhether,
riding on the balls ofmine, seem they in motion?
Here are severed lips,parted with sugar breath
so sweet a bar shouldsunder such sweet friends.
Here in her hairs, thepainter plays the spider
and hath woven a golden meshto entrap the hearts of men
faster than gnats incobwebs.
But her eyes,
how could he see to dothem?
Having made one, methinksit should have power
to steal both his andleave itself unfurnished.
But look, how far thesubstance of my praise
doth wrong this shadow inunderprizing it.
So far this shadow dothlimp behind the substance.
Here is the scroll,
the continent, and summaryof my fortune.
"You that choose not bythe view
"chance as fair and chooseas true.
"Since this fortune fallsto you, be content andseek no new.
"If you be well pleasedwith this and hold yourfortune for your bliss,
turn you where your ladyis and claim her with aloving kiss."
A gentle scroll.
Fair lady, by your leave
I come by note, to giveand to receive,
like one of two contendingin a prize
that thinks he hath donewell in people's eyes
hearing applause anduniversal shout,
giddy in spirit, stillgazing in a doubt
whether those peals ofpraise be his or no.
So thrice-fair lady, standI,
even so as doubtfulwhether what I see be true
until confirmed, signed,ratified by you.
You see me, lord Bassanio,
where I stand
such as I am.
Though for myself alone,
I would not be ambitiousin my wish
to wish myself muchbetter,
yet for you, I would betrebled twenty timesmyself,
a thousand times morerich, ten thousand timesmore fair
that only to stand high inyour account
I might in virtues,beauties, livings, friendsexceed account.
But the full sum of me issum of something
which, to term in gross,is an unlessoned girl
unschooled, unpracticed.
Happy in this, she is notyet so old but she maylearn.
Happier than this, she isnot bred so dull but shecan learn.
Happiest of all is thather gentle spirit
commits itself to yours tobe directed
as from her lord, hergovernor, her king.
Myself and what is mine toyou and yours is nowconverted.
But now I was the lord ofthis fair mansion,
master of my servants,queen o'er myself.
And even now, but now, thishouse, these servants,
and this same myself areyours, my lord.
I give them with thisring,
which when you part from,lose, or give away,
let it presage the ruin ofyour love
and be my vantage toexclaim on you.
Madam, you have bereft meof all words.
Only my blood speaks toyou in my veins,
and there is suchconfusion in my powers
as, after some orationfairly spoke by a belovedprince,
there doth appear amongthe buzzing, pleasedmultitude
where every something,being blent together,
turns to a wild ofnothing,
save of joy expressed andnot expressed.
But when this ring partsfrom this finger,
then parts life fromhence.
Oh, then be bold to sayBassanio's dead.
My lord and lady, it isnow our time
that have stood by andseen our wishes prosper
to cry "good joy."
Good joy, my lord andlady.
My lord Bassanio, and mygentle lady,
I wish you all the joythat you can wish,
for I am sure you can wishnone from me.
And when your honors meanto solemnize
the bargain of your faith,
I do beseech you, even atthat time,
I may be married too.
With all my heart,
so thou can'st get a wife.
I thank your lordship, youhave got me one.
My eyes, my lord, can lookas swift as yours.
You saw the mistress.
I beheld the maid.
You loved; I loved.
For intermission,
no more pertains to me, mylord, than you.
Your fortune stood uponthe caskets there
and so did mine too, asthe matter falls.
For wooing here until Isweat again
and swearing till my veryroof was dry
with oaths of love,
at last-- if promiselast--
I got a promise of thisfair one here
to have her love,
provided that your fortuneachieved her mistress.
Is this true, Nerissa?
Madam, it is.
So you stand pleasedwithal.
And do you, Gratiano,
mean good faith?
Yes, faith, my lord.
Our feast shall be muchhonored in your marriage.
We'll play with them thefirst boy for a thousandducats.
What, and stake down?
No, we shall ne'er win atthat sport and stake down.
But who comes here?
Lorenzo and his infidel?
What, and my old venetianfriend, Salerio?
Lorenzo and Salerio,welcome hither,
if that the youth of mynew interest here
have power to bid youwelcome.
By your leave, I bid my veryfriends and countrymen,
sweet Portia, welcome.
So do I, my lord.
They are entirely welcome.
I thank your honor.
For my part, my lord,
my purpose was not to haveseen you here.
But meeting with Salerioby the way,
he did entreat me, pastall saying nay,
to come with him along.
I did, my lord, and I havereason for it.
Signior Antonio commendshim to you.
Ere I ope his letter, Ipray thee tell me
how my good friend doth.
Not sick, my lord, unlessit be in mind.
Nor well, unless in mind.
His letter here will showyou his estate.
Nerissa, cheer yondstranger.
Bid her welcome.
Your hand, Salerio.
What's the news fromVenice?
How doth that royalmerchant, good Antonio?
I know he will be glad ofour success.
We are the Jasons.
We have won the fleece.
I would you had won thefleece that he hath lost.
There are some shrewdcontents in yond same paper
that steal the color fromBassanio's cheek.
Some dear friend dead.
Else nothing in the world
could turn so much theconstitution
of any constant man.
What, worse and worse?
With leave, Bassanio, I amhalf yourself,
and I must freely have thehalf of anything
that this same paperbrings you.
Oh, sweet Portia, here area few of the unpleasant'stwords
that ever blotted paper.
Gentle lady, when I didfirst impart my love toyou,
I freely told you all thewealth I had ran in myveins--
I was a gentleman--
and then I told you true.
And yet, dear lady,
rating myself at nothing,you shall see how much Iwas a braggart.
When I told you my statewas nothing,
I should then have toldyou that I was worse thannothing,
for indeed I have engagedmyself to a dear friend,
engaged my friend to hismere enemy to feed my means.
Here is a letter, lady.
The paper as the body ofmy friend
and every word in it a gapingwound issuing lifeblood.
But is it true, Salerio?
Have all his venturesfailed?
What, not one hit?
From Tripolis, from Mexicoand England?
From Lisbon, Barbary, andIndia?
And not one vessel 'scapethe dreadful touch
of merchant-marring rocks?
Not one, my lord.
Besides, it should appearthat,
if he had the present moneyto discharge the Jew,
he would not take it.
Never did I know acreature that did bear theshape of man
so keen and greedy toconfound a man.
He plies the Duke atmorning and at night
and doth impeach thefreedom of the state
if they deny him justice.
Twenty merchants, the Dukehimself,
and the magnificoes ofgreatest port have allpersuaded with him.
But none can drive himfrom the envious plea
of forfeiture, of justice,and his bond.
When I was with him, Ihave heard him swear
to Tubal and to Chus, hiscountrymen,
that he would rather haveAntonio's flesh
than twenty times thevalue of the sum
that he did owe him.
And I know, my lord,
if law, authority, andpower deny not,
it will go hard with poorAntonio.
Is it your dear friendthat is thus in trouble?
The dearest friend to me,the kindest man,
the best-conditioned andunwearied spirit in doingcourtesies,
and one in whom theancient Roman honor moreappears
than any that draws breathin Italy.
What sum owes he the Jew?
For me, 3,000 ducats.
What, no more?
Pay him 6,000 and defacethe bond.
Double 6,000 and thentreble that before afriend of this description
shall lose a hair throughBassanio's fault.
First, go with me tochurch and call me wife
and then away to Venice toyour friend,
for never shall you lie byPortia's side with anunquiet soul.
You shall have gold to paythe petty debt twentytimes over.
When it is paid, bringyour true friend along.
My maid Nerissa and myselfmeantime will live asmaids and widows.
Come, away.
For you must hence uponyour wedding day.
Bid your friends welcome.
Show a merry cheer.
Since you are dear bought,I will love you dear.
But let me hear the letterof your friend.
"Sweet Bassanio, my shipshave all miscarried,
"my creditors grow cruel,my estate is very low,
"my bond to the Jew isforfeit,
"and since in paying it itis impossible I should live,
"all debts are clearedbetween you and I
"if I might but see you atmy death.
"Notwithstanding, use yourpleasure.
If your love do notpersuade you to come, letnot my letter."
Oh, love, dispatch allbusiness and be gone.
Since I have your goodleave to go away, I willmake haste.
But till I come again,
no bed shall e'er beguilty of my stay,
nor rest be interposer'twixt us twain.
Jailer, look to him.
Tell not me of mercy.
This is the fool that lentout money gratis.
Jailer, look to him.
Hear me yet, good Shylock.
I'll have my bond!
Speak not against my bond.
I have sworn an oath thatI will have my bond.
Thou call'dst me dogbefore thou hadst a cause,
but since I am a dog,beware my fangs.
The Duke shall grant mejustice.
I do wonder, thou naughtyjailer, that thou art so fond
to come abroad with him athis request.
I pray thee, hear mespeak.
I'll have my bond.
I will not hear theespeak.
I'll have my bond, andtherefore speak no more.
I'll not be made a softand dull-eyed fool
to shake the head, relent,and sigh,
and yield to Christianintercessors.
Follow not.
I'll have no speaking.
I will have my bond.
It is the mostimpenetrable cur that everkept with man.
Let him alone.
I'll follow him no morewith bootless prayers.
He seeks my life.
His reason well I know.
I oft delivered from hisforfeitures
many that have at timesmade moan to me.
Therefore he hates me.
I am sure the Duke willnever grant thisforfeiture to hold.
The Duke cannot deny thecourse of law.
For the commodity thatstrangers have with us inVenice,
if it be denied, will muchimpeach
the justice of the state sincethat the trade and profit
of the city consisteth ofall nations.
Therefore, go.
These griefs and losseshave so bated me
that I shall hardly sparea pound of flesh tomorrowto my bloody creditor.
Well, jailer, on.
Pray God Bassanio come tosee me pay his debt.
And then I care not.
Madam, although I speak itin your presence,
you have a noble and atrue conceit
of godlike amity, whichappears most strongly
in bearing thus theabsence of your lord.
But if you knew to whomyou show this honor,
how true a gentleman yousend relief,
how dear a lover of mylord, your husband,
I know you would beprouder of the work
than customary bounty canenforce you.
I never did repent for doinggood, nor shall not now.
For in companions that doconverse and waste thetime together
whose souls do bear anequal yoke of love,
there must be needs a likeproportion
of lineaments, of manners,and of spirit,
which makes me think thatthis Antonio, being thebosom lover of my lord,
must needs be like mylord.
If it be so, how little isthe cost I have bestowed
in purchasing thesemblance of my soul
from out the state ofhellish cruelty.
But this comes too nearthe praising of myself.
Therefore, no more of it.
Hear other things.
Lorenzo, I commit intoyour hands
the husbandry and manageof my house until mylord's return.
For mine own part, I havetoward heaven breathed asecret vow
to live in prayer andcontemplation onlyattended by Nerissa here
until her husband and mylord's return.
There is a monastery threemiles off, and there wewill abide.
I do desire you not todeny this imposition,
the which my love and somenecessity now lays uponyou.
Madam, with all my heart Ishall obey you in all faircommands.
My people do already knowmy mind
and will acknowledge youand Jessica in place oflord Bassanio and myself.
So fare you well till weshall meet again.
Fair thoughts and happyhours attend on you.
I wish your ladyship allheart's content.
I thank you for your wish,
and I'm well pleased towish it back on you.
Fare ye well, Jessica.
Now, Balthasar, as I haveever found thee honest-true,
so let me find thee still.
Take this same letter,
and use thou all theendeavor of a man in speedto Padua.
See thou deliver this intomy cousin's hand, Dr.Bellario.
And look what notes andgarments he doth give thee.
Bring them, I pray thee,with imagined speed untothe traject,
to the common ferry whichtrades to Venice.
Waste no time in words.
Get thee gone.
I shall be there beforethee.
Madam, I go with allconvenient speed.
Come on, Nerissa.
I have work in hand thatyou yet know not of.
We'll see our husbandsbefore they think of us.
Shall they see us?
They shall, Nerissa, butin such a habit
that they shall think weare accomplished with thatwe lack.
I'll hold thee any wager
when we are bothaccoutered like young men,
I'll prove the prettierfellow of the two
and wear my dagger withthe braver grace
and speak between thechange of man and boy in areed voice
and turn two mincing stepsinto a manly stride
and speak of frays like afine bragging youth
and tell quaint lies howhonorable ladies sought mylove,
which I denying, they fellsick and died.
I could not do withal.
And then I'll repent andwish, for all that,
that I had not killedthem.
And twenty of these punylies I'll tell that menshall swear
I have discontinued schoolabove a twelvemonth.
I have, within my mind,
a thousand raw tricks ofthese bragging jacks
which I will practice.
Why, shall we turn to men?
Fie, what a question'sthat if thou wert near alewd interpreter.
But come, I'll tell theeall my whole device
when I'm in my coach,which stays for us at thepark gate.
Therefore haste away, forwe must measure twentymiles today.
Yes, truly, for look you,the sins of the father
are to be laid upon thechildren.
Therefore, I promise you,I fear you.
I was always plain withyou.
And so now I speak myagitation of the matter.
Therefore be of goodcheer, for truly I thinkyou are damned.
There is but one hope in itthat can do you any good
and that is but a kind ofbastard hope neither.
And what hope is that, Ipray thee?
Marry, you may partly hopethat your father got you not,
that you are not the Jew'sdaughter.
That were a kind ofbastard hope indeed.
So the sins of my mothershould be visited upon me.
Truly then, I fear you aredamned
both by father and mother.
Thus when I shun Scylla,your father,
I fall into Charybdis,your mother.
Well, you are gone bothways.
I shall be saved by myhusband.
He hath made me aChristian.
Truly, the more to blamehe.
We were Christians enoughbefore
e'en as many could welllive one by another.
This making of Christianswill raise the price of hogs.
If we grow all to bepork-eaters,
we shall not shortly have arasher on the coals for money.
I'll tell my husband,Launcelot, what you say.
Here he comes.
I shall grow jealous ofyou shortly, Launcelot,
if you thus get my wifeinto corners.
Nay, you need not fear us,Lorenzo.
Launcelot and I are out.
He tells me flatly there'sno mercy for me in heaven
because I am a Jew'sdaughter.
And he says you are nogood member of thecommonwealth,
for in converting Jews toChristians, you raise theprice of pork.
I shall answer that betterto the commonwealth
than you can the gettingup of the negro's belly.
The moor is with child byyou, Launcelot.
Well, it is much that the moorshould be more than reason.
But if she be less than anhonest woman,
she is indeed more than Itook her for.
How every fool can playupon the word.
I think the best grace ofwit will shortly turn intosilence
and discourse growcommendable in none onlybut parrots.
Go in, sirrah.
Bid them prepare fordinner.
That is done, sir.
They have all stomachs.
Goodly lord, what awit-snapper are you.
Then bid them preparedinner.
Oh, that is done too, sir.
Only "cover" is the word.
Will you cover then, sir?
Not so, neither, sir.
I know my duty.
Yet more quarrelling withoccasion?
Wilt thou show the whole wealthof thy wit in an instant?
I pray thee understand a plainman in his plain meaning.
Go to thy fellows, bidthem cover the table,
serve in the meat, and wewill come in to dinner.
For the table, sir, itshall be served in.
For the meat, sir, itshall be covered.
For your coming in todinner, sir,
why, let it be as humorsand conceits shall govern.
Oh, dear discretion, howhis words are suited.
The fool hath planted inhis memory an army of goodwords.
And I do know a many foolsthat stand in better place
garnished like him, thatfor a tricksy word defythe matter.
How cheer'st thou,Jessica?
And now, good sweet, saythy opinion.
How dost thou like thelord Bassanio's wife?
Past all expressing.
It is very meet the lordBassanio live an uprightlife,
for, having such ablessing in his lady,
he finds the joys ofheaven here on earth.
And if on earth he do notmerit it,
in reason he should nevercome to heaven.
Why, if two gods shouldplay some heavenly match
and on the wager lay twoearthly women and Portiaone,
there must be somethingelse pawned with theother,
for the poor rude worldhath not her fellow.
Even such a husband hast thouof me as she is for a wife.
Nay, but ask my opiniontoo of that.
I will anon.
First, let's go to dinner.
Nay, let me praise youwhile I have a stomach.
No, pray thee, let itserve for table-talk,
then howsome'er thouspeak'st mong otherthings, I shall digest it.
Well, I'll set you forth.